---
title: ordered-columns — Pinterest-style packed column layout
date: 2014-12-01 16:00 UTC
originalUrl: https://component.kitchen/blog/posts/ordered-columns-pinterest-style-packed-column-layout
---

<p>
  ordered-columns implements a packed column layout in the style of Pinterest.
  Home pages with cards or modules that vary in height often use this layout to
  pack the cards into columns: cards are assigned in order to whichever column
  is currently the shortest. Such a layout is quick to compute, produces
  visually engaging results, maximizes content that appears above the fold. It's
  a useful responsive design pattern that scales well from small displays to
  very large ones. Many JavaScript libraries exist to implement this pattern,
  but this is a great example of a pattern that can be delivered as a web
  component.
</p>
<p>
  <strong>Likes:</strong> Author
  <a href="https://github.com/stevenrskelton">Steven Skelton</a>
  implements this column layout from the ground up as a Polymer web component.
  We see many, many web components that simply wrap an existing JavaScript
  library, and while that's a fine way to start, it can also lead to bloat. He
  also provides good documentation and numerous examples.
</p>
<p>
  <strong>Nits:</strong> The component only works with &lt;article&gt; elements
  (or elements with role="article"); it would be nicer if it could work with any
  type of child element. The component also moves all the children from the
  light DOM (the outer page) to the component's own shadow DOM. This effectively
  removes the children from the main page, complicating styling and the handling
  of events generated by the children.
</p>
<p>
  Apologies that we were unable to get our demo working in IE. We try hard to
  ensure all demos work in all mainstream browsers, but after spending too much
  time wrestling with IE, we decided we'd rather publish this review than keep
  debugging. Our issue likely had more to do with our own blog-with-demos
  environment than with the ordered-columns component itself.
</p>
<p>
  <a href="https://github.com/stevenrskelton/ordered-columns"
    >View ordered-columns on GitHub</a
  >
</p>
